In this chapter, we're going to
be talking about, object-oriented
programming, in Python.
And to get started, we need to start about
the, basis for, objects in Python.
And, that's the class.
And, to understand, how classes work, we
have to
go back even one more step, and talk
about,.
A concept called, abstract data types.
First of all, when we talk about
object-oriented programming,
we talk about, breaking our program up
into objects.
So, for example, in a payroll program, we
might have an employee object.
A payroll project.
A paycheck, object.
Perhaps even a, hours worked, or time
sheet object.
These objects, are formed based on
something called an abstract data type.
An abstract data type, takes the concept
of an object.
And breaks it down into, really two parts,
the
attributes of an object, and the
behaviors, of an object.
A name, is an example of something that
might be, broken down into an object.
The attributes of an object, might consist
of, your first name, your middle name.
And a last name.
There might be other attributes such as a,
title or a prefix or a suffix such as jr.
But, will go with these attributes for
now.
Then we had talked about behaviors, and
what are the behaviors of a name.
Well, a name, really doesn't do much other
than identify a person.
So, when we talk about behaviours of a
name we
might we be talking about instead, how is
the name displayed.
Well, a name can be displayed first,
middle, last, or it can be
displayed last, first, middle, or it can
even displayed by just the initials.
But when we begin to write a program in an
object orientated style.
The first thing we have to do, is take a
look at what the objects are, for the
problem and, define an abstract data type
for, those objects.
Once we've done that, then we're ready to
start, defining the class.
Which will make up the true Python
definition, of an object.
And then we can actually, create the
objects, in Python from the class
definition.
Before I begin to talk about how we,
implement classes
in Python, let's talk about the
differences between classes and objects.
A class is a definition.
Of, an abstract data type, which I'm going
to abbreviate ADT.
And we'll go even further and say, it's a
definition of an abstract data type in a
programming language.
An object, on the other hand, is an
instance of a class.
So, in other words, I might have a, class
that's defined, name.
And then in my code, I might write
something like this, aName equals name,
John Doe.
AName now becomes an object, of, the name
class.
So, the class is nothing more than the
definition.
Of an abstract data type or the
implementation of an abstract data type.
And an object, is a particular instance,
of the class definition.
So hopefully, that will clear up any
confusion you
might have had about the differences
between, classes and objects.
So, to summarize, an abstract data type is
a, high-level definition of a,
object that, breaks the object up into
its, attributes and its behaviors.
Once we've created an abstract data type,
which
we don't do in the actual programming
language.
We might do it on paper, or at least in
our heads.
Then we're ready to actually, create the
class definition, from that abstract data
type.
Now, we're ready to move on to the first
lesson, where we're gonna actually begin,
defining classes in Python,
by talking about how to create
constructors, which initialize fields,
or the data, or attribute part, of a class
definition.